<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
			<p>The intensity and seriousness of the football season abetted Stover in his new attitude of Napoleonic seclusion by leaving him little time for the lighter side of college pleasures. Every hour was taken up with the effort of mastering his lessons, which he then regarded, in common with the majority of his class, as a laborious task, a sort of necessary evil, the price to be paid for the privilege of passing four years in pleasant places with congenial companions.</p>
			<p>After supper he returned immediately to his rooms, where presently a succession of visiting sophomores, members of the society campaign committees, took up the first hours. These inquisitorial delegations, formal, stiff, and conducted on a basis of superior investigation, embarrassed him at first. But this feeling soon wore off with the consciousness that he was a subject of dispute; and, secure in the opportunity that would come to him with the opening of the winter-term period of elections, his interest was directed only to the probable selection among his classmates.</p>
			<p>By the middle of October the situation at Yale field had become critical. The earlier games had demonstrated what had been foreseen⁠—the weakness and inexperience of the raw material in hand. Serious errors in policy were committed by Captain Dana, who, in the effort to find some combination which would bolster up the weak backfield, began a constant shifting of the positions in order to experiment with heavier men behind the line. A succession of minor injuries arrived to further the disorganization. The nervousness of the captain communicated itself to the team, harassed and driven in the effort for accomplishment. That there was serious opposition among the coaches to these new groping policies every man saw plainly; yet, to Stover’s amazement, the knowledge remained within the team, impregnated with the spirit of loyalty and discipline.</p>
			<p>After three weeks of brilliancy at his natural position of end, buoyed up by the zest of confidence and success, he was abruptly called to one side.</p>
			<p>“Stover, you’ve played behind the line, haven’t you?” said Dana.</p>
			<p>“A couple of games at school, sir,” he answered hastily, “just as a makeshift.”</p>
			<p>“I’m going to try you at fullback.”</p>
			<p>“At fullback?”</p>
			<p>“Get into it and see if you can make good.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>He went without spirit, sure of the impossibility of the thing, feeling only the humiliation and failure that all at once flung itself like a storm-cloud across his ambition. A coach took charge of him, running over with him the elementary principles of blocking and plunging.</p>
			<p>When he lined up, it was with half of the coaching force at his back.</p>
			<p>“Come on, Stover; get into it!”</p>
			<p>“Wake up!”</p>
			<p>“Get your head down!”</p>
			<p>“Keep a-going!”</p>
			<p>“Ram into it!”</p>
			<p>“Knock that man over!”</p>
			<p>“Knock him <i>over</i>!”</p>
			<p>He went into the line blindly, frantically, feeling for the first time that last exhausting, lunging expenditure of strength that is called forth with the effort to fall forward when tackled. Nothing he did satisfied. It was a constant storm of criticism, behind his back, in his ears, shrieked to his face:</p>
			<p>“Keep your feet⁠—oh, keep your feet!”</p>
			<p>“Smash open that line!”</p>
			<p>“Rip open that line!”</p>
			<p>“Hit it⁠—hit it!”</p>
			<p>“Hard⁠—harder!”</p>
			<p>“Go on⁠—don’t stop!”</p>
			<p>A dozen times he flung his meager weight against the ponderous bodies of the center men, crushed by the impact in front, smothered by the surging support of his own line behind, helpless in the grinding contention, turned and twisted, going down in a heap amid the shock of bodies, thinking always:</p>
			<p>“Well, the darn fools will find out just about how much use I am here!”</p>
			<p>When the practise ended, at last, Dana called on Tompkins.</p>
			<p>“Joe, take Stover and give him a line on the punting, will you?”</p>
			<p>“I say, he’s been worked pretty hard,” said the coach with a glance.</p>
			<p>“How about it?” said Dana quickly.</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Stover, lying gloriously. At that moment, aching in every joint, he would have given everything to have spoken his mind. Instead he brought forth a smile distinguished for its eagerness, and said, “I’d like to get right at it, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Fullback’s the big problem,” said Tompkins, as they started across the field. “Bangs can fill in at end, but we’ve got to get a fullback that can catch punts, and with nerve enough to get off his kicks in the face of that Princeton line.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll do my best, sir,” said Stover, with a sinking feeling.</p>
			<p>For twenty minutes, against the rebellion of his body, he went through a rigorous lesson, improving a little in the length of his punts, and succeeding fairly well in holding the ball, which came spinning end over end to him from the region of the clouds.</p>
			<p>“That’ll do,” said Tompkins, at last.</p>
			<p>“That’s all?” said Stover stoically, picking up his sweater.</p>
			<p>“That’s all.” Tompkins, watching him for a moment, said suddenly: “Stover, I don’t know whether Dana’ll keep you at full or not, but I guess you’ll have to get ready to fill in. Come over to the gym lot every morning for about half an hour, and we’ll see if we can’t work up those punts.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>They walked out together.</p>
			<p>“Stover, look here,” said Tompkins abruptly, “I’m going to speak straight to you, because I think you’ll keep your mouth shut. We’re in a desperate condition here, and you know it. There’s only one man in charge at Yale, now and always, and that’s the captain. That’s our system, and we stand or fall by it; and in order that we can follow him four times out of five to victory, we’ve got sometimes to shut our eyes and follow him down to defeat. Do you get me?”</p>
			<p>“I think I do.”</p>
			<p>“No matter what happens, no criticism of the captain⁠—no talking outside. You may think he’s wrong, you may know he’s wrong, but you’ve got to grin and bear it. That’s all. Remember it⁠—a close mouth!”</p>
			<p>But it required all Stover’s newly learned stoicism to maintain this attitude in the weeks that arrived. After a week he was suddenly returned to his old position, and as suddenly redrafted to fullback when another game had displayed the inadequacy of the regular. From a position where he was familiar with all the craft of the game, Stover suddenly found himself a novice whom a handful of coaches sought desperately to develop by dint of hammering and driving. His name no longer figured in the newspaper accounts as the find of the season, but as Stover the weak spot on the eleven. It was a rude discipline, and more than once he was on the point of crying out at what seemed to him the useless sacrifice. But he held his tongue as he saw others, seniors, put to the same test and giving obedience without a word of criticism for the captain, who, as everyone realized, face to face with a hopeless outcome, was gradually going to pieces.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile Dopey McNab was just as zealously concerned in the pursuit of his classic ideal, which, however, was imagined more along the lines of such historic scholars as Verdant Green, Harry Foker, and certain heroes of his favorite author, Charles Lever.</p>
			<p>The annoyance of recitations by an economical imagination he converted into periods of repose and refreshing slumber behind the broad back of McMasters, who, for a certain fixed portion of tobacco a week, agreed to act as a wall in moments of calm and to awake him with a kick on the shins when the summons to refuse to recite arrived.</p>
			<p>Having discovered Buck Waters as a companionable soul, congenially inclined to the pagan view of life, it was not long before the two discovered the third completing genius in the person of Tom Kelly, who, though a member of the Sheff freshman class, immediately agreed not to let either time, place, or conflicting recitations stand in the way of that superior mental education which must result from the friction of three such active imaginations.</p>
			<p>The triumvirate was established on a firm foundation on the day after Kelly’s ambitious but unsuccessful attempt to hit the moon with a pool-ball, and immediately began a series of practical jokes and larks which threatened to terminate abruptly the partnership or remove it bodily to an unimaginative outer world.</p>
			<p>McNab, like most gentlemen of determined leisure, worked indefatigably every minute of the day. Having slept through chapel and first recitation, with an occasional interruption to rise and say with great dignity “Not prepared,” he would suddenly, about ten o’clock in the morning, awake with a start, and drifting into Stover’s room plaster his nose to the window and restlessly ask himself what mischief he could invent for the day.</p>
			<p>After a moment of dissatisfied introspection, he would say fretfully:</p>
			<p>“I say, Dink?”</p>
			<p>“Hello!”</p>
			<p>“Studying?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Almost finished?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“What are you doing, McCarthy?”</p>
			<p>“Boning out an infernal problem in spherical geometry.”</p>
			<p>“I gave that up.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you did!”</p>
			<p>“Sure, it’s too hard⁠—what’s the use of wasting time over it, then? What do you say to a game of pool?”</p>
			<p>“Get out!”</p>
			<p>“Let’s go for a row up on Lake Whitney.”</p>
			<p>“Shut up!”</p>
			<p>“Come over to Sheffield and get up a game of poker with Tom Kelly.”</p>
			<p>At this juncture, Stover and McCarthy rising in wrath, McNab would beat a hurried retreat, dodging whatever came sailing after him. Much aggrieved, he would go down the hall, trying the different doors, which had been locked against his approach.</p>
			<p>About this time Buck Waters, moved by similar impulses, would appear and the two would camp down on the top step and practise duets, until a furious uprising in the house would drive them ignominiously on to the street.</p>
			<p>Left to their own resources, they would wander aimlessly about the city, inventing a hundred methods to accomplish the most difficult of all feats, killing time.</p>
			<p>On one particular morning in early November, McNab and Buck Waters, being refused admission to three houses on York Street, and the affront being aggravated by jeers and epithets of the coarsest kind, went arm in arm on mischief bent.</p>
			<p>“I say, what let’s do?” said McNab disconsolately.</p>
			<p>“We must do something new,” said Buck Waters.</p>
			<p>“We certainly must.”</p>
			<p>“Well, let’s try the old clothes gag,” said McNab; “that always amuses a little.”</p>
			<p>Reaching the thoroughfare of Chapel Street, McNab stationed himself at the corner while Waters proceeded to a point about halfway down the block.</p>
			<p>Assuming a lounging position against a lamppost, McNab waited until chance delivered up to him a superhumanly dignified citizen in top hat and boutonnière, moving through the crowd with an air of solid importance.</p>
			<p>Darting out, he approached with the sweep of an eagle, saying in a hoarse whisper:</p>
			<p>“Old clothes, any old clothes, sir?”</p>
			<p>His victim, frowning, accelerated his pace.</p>
			<p>“Buy your old clothes, sir, buy ’em now.”</p>
			<p>Several onlookers stopped and looked. The gentleman, who had not turned to see who was addressing him, said hurriedly in an undertone:</p>
			<p>“No, no, nothing today.”</p>
			<p>“Buy ’em tomorrow⁠—pay good price,” said McNab peevishly.</p>
			<p>“No, no, nothing to sell.”</p>
			<p>“Call around at the house⁠—give good prices.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing to sell, nothing, I tell you!”</p>
			<p>“Buy what you got on,” said McNab at the psychological moment, “give you five dollars or toss you ten or nothinks!”</p>
			<p>“Be off!” said the now thoroughly infuriated victim, turning and brandishing his cane. “I’ll have you arrested.”</p>
			<p>McNab, having accomplished his preliminary role, retreated to a safe distance, exclaiming:</p>
			<p>“Toss you ten dollars or nothinks!”</p>
			<p>The now supremely self-conscious and furious gentleman, having rid himself of McNab, immediately found himself in the hands of Buck Waters, who pursued him for the remainder of the block, with a mild obsequious persistency that would not be shaken off. By this time the occupants of the shop windows and the loiterers, perceiving the game, were in roars of laughter, which made the passage of the second and third victims a procession of hilarious triumph for McNab and Waters.</p>
			<p>Tiring of this, they locked arms again and, taking by hazard a side street, continued their quest for adventure.</p>
			<p>“Mornings are a dreadful bore,” said McNab, pulling down his hat.</p>
			<p>“They certainly are.”</p>
			<p>“Who was the old duck we tackled first?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t know⁠—familiar whiskers.”</p>
			<p>“Seemed to me I’ve seen him somewhere.”</p>
			<p>“Say, look at the ki-yi.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a Shetland poodle.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a pen-wiper.”</p>
			<p>Directly in front of them a shaggy French poodle, bearing indeed a certain resemblance to both a Shetland pony and a discarded pen-wiper, was gleefully engaged in the process of shaking to pieces a rubber which it had stolen.</p>
			<p>“If it sees itself in a mirror it will die of mortification,” said Buck Waters.</p>
			<p>“And yet, Buck, he’s happier than we are,” said McNab, who had been unjustifiably forced to flunk twice in one morning’s recitation.</p>
			<p>“I say, Dopey,” said Waters in alarm, “quit that!”</p>
			<p>“I will.”</p>
			<p>“Look at the fireworks,” said Waters, stopping suddenly at a window, “pinwheels, rockets, Roman candles.”</p>
			<p>“What are they doing there this time of the year?” said McNab angrily.</p>
			<p>“Election parade, perhaps.”</p>
			<p>“That’s an idea to work on, Buck.”</p>
			<p>“It certainly is.”</p>
			<p>“We must tell Tom Kelly about that.”</p>
			<p>“We will.”</p>
			<p>“Why, there’s that ridiculous ki-yi again!”</p>
			<p>“He seems to like us.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not complimented.”</p>
			<p>At this moment, with the poodle sporting the rubber about fifteen feet ahead of them, they beheld an Italian barber lolling in the doorway of his shop, as profoundly bored by himself as they affected to be in conjunction.</p>
			<p>“Fine dog,” said the barber with a critical glance.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said McNab, halting at once.</p>
			<p>The poodle, for whatever reason, likewise halted and looked around.</p>
			<p>“Looka better, cutta da hair.”</p>
			<p>“You’re right there, Columbus,” assented Buck Waters. “His fur coat looks as though it came from a fire sale.”</p>
			<p>“He ought to be trim up nice, good style.”</p>
			<p>“Right, very, very right!”</p>
			<p>“Give him nice collar, nice tuft on da tail, nice tuft on da feet.”</p>
			<p>“Right the second time!”</p>
			<p>“I clip him up, eh?” said the barber hopefully.</p>
			<p>“Why not?” said McNab, looking into the depth of Buck Waters’s eyes.</p>
			<p>“Why not, Beecher?” said Waters, giving him the name of the President of the College Y. M. C. A.</p>
			<p>“I think it an excellent suggestion, Jonathan Edwards,” said McNab instantly.</p>
			<p>With considerable strategic coaxing, the dog was enticed into the shop, where to their surprise he became immediately docile.</p>
			<p>“You see he lika da clip,” said the barber enthusiastically, preparing a table.</p>
			<p>“He’s a very intelligent dog,” said McNab.</p>
			<p>“You’ve done much of this, Columbus?” said Waters with a businesslike air.</p>
			<p>“Sure. Ten, twenta dog a day, down in da city.”</p>
			<p>“Edwards, we shall learn something.”</p>
			<p>The dog was induced to come on the table, and Waters delegated to hold him in position.</p>
			<p>“Something pretty slick now, Christopher,” said McNab, taking the attitude a connoisseur should take. “Explain the fine points to us, as you go along.”</p>
			<p>“Sure.”</p>
			<p>“I like the way he handles the scissors, Beecher⁠—strong, powerful stroke.”</p>
			<p>“He’s got a good batting eye, too, Edwards.”</p>
			<p>“My, what a nice clean boulevard!”</p>
			<p>“Just see the hair fly.”</p>
			<p>“It’ll certainly improve the tail.”</p>
			<p>“Clip a little anchor in the middle of the back.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see that?”</p>
			<p>“I did.”</p>
			<p>“He’s a wonder.”</p>
			<p>“He is.”</p>
			<p>“Columbus, a little more off here⁠—oh, just a trifle!”</p>
			<p>“First rate; shave up the nose and part the whiskers!”</p>
			<p>“Look at the legs, with the dinky pantalets⁠—aren’t they dreams?”</p>
			<p>“I love the tail best.”</p>
			<p>“Why, Columbus is an artist. Never saw anyone like him.”</p>
			<p>“Would you know the dog?”</p>
			<p>“Why, mother wouldn’t know him,” said McNab solemnly.</p>
			<p>“All in forty-three minutes, too.”</p>
			<p>“It’s beautifully done, beautifully.”</p>
			<p>“Exquisite!”</p>
			<p>The barber, perspiring with his ambitious efforts, withdrew for a final inspection, clipped a little on the top and to the side, and signified by a nod that art could go no further.</p>
			<p>“Pretta fine, eh?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Columbus, permit me,” said Waters, shaking hands.</p>
			<p>McNab gravely followed suit. The dog, released, gave a howl and began circling madly about the room.</p>
			<p>“Open the door,” shouted McNab. “See how happy he is!”</p>
			<p>The three stationed themselves thoughtfully on the doorstep, watching the liberated poodle disappear down the street in frantic spirals, loops and figure-eights.</p>
			<p>“He lika da feel,” said the barber, pleased.</p>
			<p>“Oh, he’s much improved,” said Waters, edging a little away.</p>
			<p>“He fine lookin’ a dog!”</p>
			<p>“He’ll certainly surprise the girls and mother,” said McNab, shifting his feet. “Well, Garibaldi, ta-ta!”</p>
			<p>“Hold up,” said the barber, “one plunk.”</p>
			<p>“One dollar, Raphael?” said Buck Waters in innocent surprise. “What for, oh, what for?”</p>
			<p>“One plunk, clippa da dog.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but Garibaldi,” said McNab gently, “that wasn’t our dog.”</p>
			<p>“Shall we run for it?” said Waters, as they went hurriedly up the block.</p>
			<p>“Wait until Garibaldi gives chase⁠—we must be dignified,” said McNab, with an eye to the rear.</p>
			<p>“Dagos have no sense of humor. Here he comes with a razor⁠—scud for it!”</p>
			<p>They dashed madly for the corner, doubled a couple of times, joined by the rejuvenated friendly poodle, and suddenly, wheeling around a corner, ran straight into the dean, who as fate would have it, was accompanied by the very dignified citizen who had been the first victim of their old clothes act and upon whom the frantic poodle, with canine expressions of relief and delight, immediately cast himself.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Buck,” said McNab, half an hour later, as they went limply back, “Napoleon would have whipped the British to an omelet at Waterloo if he’d known about that sunken road.”</p>
			<p>“We are but mortals.”</p>
			<p>“How the deuce were we to know the pup belonged to Professor Borgle, the eminent rootitologist?”</p>
			<p>“Well, we paid the dago, didn’t we?”</p>
			<p>“That was outrageous.”</p>
			<p>“I say, Dopey, what’ll you do if they fire us?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t joke on such subjects.”</p>
			<p>“Dopey,” said Waters solemnly, “while the dean has the case under consideration, just to aid his deliberations, I think we had better⁠—well, study a little.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose we must flirt with the textbooks,” said McNab, “but let’s do it together, so no one’ll suspect.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
