<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
			<p>“Hello, there, Stover!”</p>
			<p>“Stover, over here!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Dink Stover, this way!”</p>
			<p>Over the bared heads of the bobbing, shifting crowd he saw Hunter and McCarthy waving to him. He made his way through the strange assorted mass of freshmen to his friends, where already, instinctively, a certain picked element had coalesced. A dozen fellows, clean-cut, steady of head and eye, carrying a certain unmistakable, quiet assurance, came about him, gripping him warmly, welcoming him into the little knot with cordial acknowledgment. He felt the tribute, and he liked it. They were of his own kind, his friends to be, now and in the long reaches of life.</p>
			<p>“Fall in, fall in!”</p>
			<p>Ahead of them, the upper classes were already in rank. Behind, the freshmen, unorganized, distrustful, were being driven into lines of eight and ten by seniors, pipe in mouth, authoritative, quiet, fearfully enveloped in dignity. Cheers began to sound ahead, the familiar <i>brek-e-kek-kex</i> with the class numeral at the end. A cry went up:</p>
			<p>“Here, we must have a cheer.”</p>
			<p>“Give us a cheer.”</p>
			<p>“Start her up.”</p>
			<p>“Lead a cheer, someone.”</p>
			<p>“Lead a cheer, Hunter.”</p>
			<p>“Lead the cheer, Gimbel.”</p>
			<p>“Lead the cheer, Stover.”</p>
			<p>“Come on, Stover!”</p>
			<p>A dozen voices took up his name. He caught the infection. Without hesitating, he stepped by Hunter, who was hesitating, and cried:</p>
			<p>“Now, fellows, all together⁠—the first cheer for the class! Are you ready? Let her rip!”</p>
			<p>The cheer, gathering momentum, went crashing above the noises of the street. The college burst into a mighty shout of acclaim⁠—another class was born!</p>
			<p>Suddenly ahead the dancing lights of the senior torches began to undulate. Through the mass a hoarse roar went rushing, and a sudden muscular tension.</p>
			<p>“Grab hold of me.”</p>
			<p>“Catch my arm.”</p>
			<p>“Grip tight.”</p>
			<p>“Get in line.”</p>
			<p>“Move up.”</p>
			<p>“Get the swing.”</p>
			<p>Stover found himself, arms locked over one another’s shoulders, between Schley, who had somehow kept persistently near him, and a powerful, smiling, blond-haired fellow who shouted to him:</p>
			<p>“My name’s Hungerford⁠—Joe Hungerford. Glad to know you. Down from Groton.”</p>
			<p>It was a name known across the world for power in finance, and the arm about Stover’s shoulder was taut with the same sentimental rush of emotion.</p>
			<p>Down the moving line suddenly came surging the chant:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“Chi Rho Omega Lambda Chi!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We meet tonight to celebrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Omega Lambda Chi!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Grotesquely, lumberingly, tripping and confused, they tried to imitate the forward classes, who were surging in the billowy rhythm of the elusive serpentine dance.</p>
			<p>“How the deuce do they do it?”</p>
			<p>“Get a skip to it, you ice-wagons.”</p>
			<p>“All to the left, now.”</p>
			<p>“No, to the right.”</p>
			<p>Gradually they found themselves; hoarse, laughing, struggling, sweeping inconsequentially on behind the singing, cheering college.</p>
			<p>Before Dink knew it, the line had broken with a rush, and he was carried, struggling and pushing, into a vacant lot, where all at once, out of the tumult and the riot, a circle opened and spread under his eyes.</p>
			<p>Seniors in varsity sweaters, with brief authoritative gestures, forced back the crowd, stationed the fretful lights, commanding and directing:</p>
			<p>“First row, sit down.”</p>
			<p>“Down in front, there.”</p>
			<p>“Kneel behind.”</p>
			<p>“Freshmen over here.”</p>
			<p>“Get a move on!”</p>
			<p>“Stop that shoving.”</p>
			<p>“How’s the space, Cap?”</p>
			<p>In the center, Captain Dana waited with an appraising eye.</p>
			<p>“All right. Call out the lightweights.”</p>
			<p>Almost immediately, from the opposite sophomores, came a unanimous shout:</p>
			<p>“Farquahar! Dick Farquahar!”</p>
			<p>“Come on, Dick!”</p>
			<p>“Get in the ring!”</p>
			<p>Out into the ring stepped an agile, nervous figure, acclaimed by all his class.</p>
			<p>“A cheer for Farquahar, fellows!”</p>
			<p>“One, two, three!”</p>
			<p>“<em>Farquahar!</em>”</p>
			<p>“Candidate from the freshman class!”</p>
			<p>“Candidate!”</p>
			<p>“Robinson!”</p>
			<p>“Teddy Robinson!”</p>
			<p>“Harris!”</p>
			<p>“No, Robinson⁠—Robinson!”</p>
			<p>Gimbel’s voice dominated the outcry. There was a surging, and then a splitting of the crowd, and Robinson was slung into the ring.</p>
			<p>In the midst of contending cheers, the antagonists stripped to the belt and stood forth to shake hands, their bared torsos shining in high lights against the mingled shadows of the audience.</p>
			<p>The two, equally matched in skill, went tumbling and whirling over the matted sod, twisting and flopping, until by a sudden hold Robinson caught his adversary in a half nelson and for the brief part of a second had the two shoulders touching the ground. The second round likewise went to the freshman, who was triumphant after a struggle of twenty minutes.</p>
			<p>“Middleweights!”</p>
			<p>“Candidate from the sophomore class!”</p>
			<p>“Candidate from the freshman!”</p>
			<p>“Fisher!”</p>
			<p>“Denny Fisher!”</p>
			<p>The sophomore stepped forth, tall, angular, well knit. Among the freshmen a division of opinion arose:</p>
			<p>“Say, Andover, who’ve you got?”</p>
			<p>“Anyone from Hotchkiss?”</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter with French?”</p>
			<p>“He doesn’t know a thing about wrestling.”</p>
			<p>“How about Doc White?”</p>
			<p>“Not heavy enough.”</p>
			<p>The seniors began to be impatient.</p>
			<p>“Hurry up, now, freshmen, hurry up!”</p>
			<p>“Produce something!”</p>
			<p>Still a hopeless indecision prevailed.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know anyone.”</p>
			<p>“Jack’s too heavy.”</p>
			<p>“Say, you Hill School fellows, haven’t you got someone?”</p>
			<p>“Someone’s got to go out.”</p>
			<p>The sophomores, seizing the advantage, began to gibe at them:</p>
			<p>“Don’t be afraid, freshmen!”</p>
			<p>“We won’t hurt you.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll let you down easy.”</p>
			<p>“Take it by default.”</p>
			<p>“Call time on them.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know a thing about it,” said Stover, between his teeth, to Hungerford, his hands twitching impatiently, his glance fixed hungrily on the provokingly amused face of the sophomore champion.</p>
			<p>“I’m too heavy or I’d go.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve a mind to go, all the same.”</p>
			<p>McCarthy, who knew his impulses of old, seized him by the arm.</p>
			<p>“Don’t get excited, Dink, old boy; you don’t know anything about wrestling.”</p>
			<p>“No, but I can <em>scrap</em>!”</p>
			<p>The outcry became an uproar:</p>
			<p>“Quitters!”</p>
			<p>“ ’Fraid cats!”</p>
			<p>“Poor little freshmen!”</p>
			<p>“They’re in a funk.”</p>
			<p>“By George, I can’t stand that,” said Stover, setting his teeth, the old love of combat sweeping over him. “I’m going to have a chance at that duck myself!”</p>
			<p>He thrust his way forward, shaking off McCarthy’s hold, stepped over the reclining front ranks, and, springing into the ring, faced Dana.</p>
			<p>“I’m no wrestler, sir, but if there’s no one else I’ll have a try at it.”</p>
			<p>There was a sudden hush, and then a chorus:</p>
			<p>“Who is it?”</p>
			<p>“Who’s that fellow?”</p>
			<p>“What’s his name?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, freshmen, who’s your candidate?”</p>
			<p>“Stover!”</p>
			<p>“Stover, a football man!”</p>
			<p>“Fellow from Lawrenceville!”</p>
			<p>The seniors had him over in a corner, stripping him, talking excitedly.</p>
			<p>“Say, Stover, what do you know about it?”</p>
			<p>“Not a thing.”</p>
			<p>“Then go in and attack.”</p>
			<p>“All right.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t wait for him.”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“He’s a clever wrestler, but you can get his nerve.”</p>
			<p>“His nerve?”</p>
			<p>“Keep off the ground.”</p>
			<p>“Off the ground, yes.”</p>
			<p>“Go right in; right at him; tackle him hard; shake him up.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” he said, for the tenth time. He had heard nothing that had been said. He was standing erect, looking in a dazed way at the hundreds of eyes that were dancing about him in the living, breathing pit in which he stood. He heard a jumble of roars and cheers, and one clear cry, McCarthy crying:</p>
			<p>“Good old Dink!”</p>
			<p>Someone was rolling up his trousers to the knee; someone was flinging a sweater over his bared back; someone was whispering in his ear:</p>
			<p>“Get right to him. Go for him⁠—don’t wait!”</p>
			<p>“Already, there,” said Captain Dana’s quiet, matter-of-fact voice.</p>
			<p>“Already, here.”</p>
			<p>“Shake hands!”</p>
			<p>The night air swept over him with a sudden chill as the sweaters were pulled away. He went forth while Dana ran over the rules and regulations, which he did not understand at all. He stood then about five feet ten, in perfect condition, every muscle clearly outlined against the wiry, spare Yankee frame, shoulders and the sinews of his arms extraordinarily developed. From the moment he had stepped out, his eyes had never left Fisher’s. Combat transformed his features, sending all the color from his face, narrowing the eyes, and drawing tense the lips. Combat was with him always an overmastering rage in the leash of a cold, nervous, pulsating logic, which by the very force of its passion gave to his expression an almost dispassionate cruelty⁠—a look not easy to meet, that somehow, on the instant, impressed itself on the crowd with the terrific seriousness of the will behind.</p>
			<p>“Wiry devil.”</p>
			<p>“Good shoulders.”</p>
			<p>“Great fighting face, eh?”</p>
			<p>“Scrapper, all right.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll bet he is.”</p>
			<p>“Shake hands!”</p>
			<p>Stover caught the other’s hand, looked into his eyes, read something there that told him, science aside, that he was the other’s master; and suddenly, rushing forward, he caught him about the knees and, lifting him bodily in the air, hurled him through the circle in a terrific tackle.</p>
			<p>The onslaught was so sudden that Fisher, unable to guard himself, went down with a crash, the fall broken by the bodies of the spectators.</p>
			<p>A roar, half laughter, half hysteria, went up.</p>
			<p>“Go for him!”</p>
			<p>“Good boy, Stover!”</p>
			<p>“Chew him up!”</p>
			<p>“Is he a scrapper!”</p>
			<p>“Say, this <em>is</em> a fight!”</p>
			<p>“Wow!”</p>
			<p>Dana, clapping them on the shoulders, brought them back to the center of the ring and restored them to the position in which they had fallen. Fisher, plainly shaken up, immediately worked himself into a defensive position, recovering his breath, while Stover frantically sought some instinctive hold with which to turn him over.</p>
			<p>Suddenly an arm shot out, caught his head in chancery, and before he knew it he was underneath and the weight of Fisher’s body was above, pressing him down. He staggered to his feet in a fury, maddened, unreasoning, and went down again, always with the dead weight above him.</p>
			<p>“Here, that won’t do,” he said to himself savagely, recovering his clarity of vision; “I mustn’t lose strength.”</p>
			<p>All at once, before he knew how it had been done, Fisher’s arm was under his, cutting over his neck, and slowly but irresistibly his shoulders were turning toward the fatal touch. Everyone was up, shouting:</p>
			<p>“Turn him over!”</p>
			<p>“Finish him up!”</p>
			<p>“Hold out, freshman!”</p>
			<p>“Hold out!”</p>
			<p>“Flop over!”</p>
			<p>“Don’t give in!”</p>
			<p>“Stick it out!”</p>
			<p>With a sudden expenditure of strength, he checked the turning movement, desperately striving against the cruel hold.</p>
			<p>“Good boy, Stover!”</p>
			<p>“That’s the stuff!”</p>
			<p>“Show your grit!”</p>
			<p>“Hold out!”</p>
			<p>“Show your nerve!”</p>
			<p>In a second he had reasoned it out. He was caught⁠—he knew it. He could resist three minutes, five minutes, slowly sinking against his ebbing strength, frantically cheered for a spectacular resistance⁠—and then what? If he had a chance, it was in preserving every ounce of his strength for the coming rounds.</p>
			<p>“All right; you’ve got me this time,” he said coldly, and, relaxing, let his shoulders drop.</p>
			<p>Dana’s hand fell stingingly on him, announcing the fall. He rose amid an angry chorus:</p>
			<p>“What the deuce!”</p>
			<p>“Say, I don’t stand for that!”</p>
			<p>“Thought he was game.”</p>
			<p>“Game nothing!”</p>
			<p>“Lost his nerve.”</p>
			<p>“Sure he did.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll be damned.”</p>
			<p>“A quitter⁠—a rank quitter!”</p>
			<p>He walked to his seconds, angry at the misunderstanding.</p>
			<p>“Here, I know what I’m doing,” he said in short, quick breaths, forgetting that he, a freshman, was addressing the lords of creation. He was a captain again, his own captain, conducting his own battle. “I’ll get him yet. Rub up this shoulder, quick.”</p>
			<p>“Keep off the ground,” said one mentor.</p>
			<p>“You bet I will.”</p>
			<p>“Why the deuce did you give in so easily?”</p>
			<p>“Because there are two more rounds, and I’m going to use my head⁠—hang it!”</p>
			<p>“He’s right, too,” said the first senior, rubbing him fiercely with the towel. “Now, sport, don’t monkey with him until you’ve jarred him up a couple of times!”</p>
			<p>“That’s what I’m going to do!”</p>
			<p>“Time!” cried the voice of Dana.</p>
			<p>This time he retreated slowly, drawing Fisher unwarily toward his edge of the ring, and then suddenly, as the sophomore lunged at him, shot forward again, in a tackle just below the waist, raised him clear off the ground, spun him around, and, putting all his force into his back as a woodchopper swings an ax, brought him down crashing, clear across the ring. It was a fearful tackle, executed with every savage ounce of rage within him, the force of which momentarily stunned him. Fisher, groggy under the bruising impact, barely had time to turn on his stomach before Stover was upon him.</p>
			<p>Dink immediately sprang up and back, waiting in the center of the ring. The sophomore, too dazed to reason clearly, yielding only to his anger at the sudden reversal, foolishly struggled to his feet and came staggering toward him. A second time Stover threw all his dynamic strength into another crashing tackle. This time Fisher went over on his back with a thump, and, though he turned instinctively, both shoulders had landed squarely on the turf, and, despite his frantic protests, a roar went up as Dana allotted the fall to Stover.</p>
			<p>This time, as he went to his corner, it was amid pandemonium:</p>
			<p>“You’re a corker, freshman!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you bulldog!”</p>
			<p>“Tear him up!”</p>
			<p>“You’re the stuff!”</p>
			<p>“Good head, freshman!”</p>
			<p>“Good brain-work!”</p>
			<p>Several upper classmen came hurriedly over to his corner, slapping him on the back, volunteering advice.</p>
			<p>“Clear out,” said his mentor proudly. “This rooster can take care of himself.”</p>
			<p>Fisher came up for the third round, visibly groggy and shaken by the force of the tackles he had received, but game. Twice Stover, watching his chance, dove under the groping hands and flung him savagely to the ground. Once Fisher caught him, as they lay on the ground, in a hold that might have been decisive earlier in the match. As it was, Stover felt with a swift horror the arm slipping under his arm, half gripping his neck. The wet heat of the antagonistic body over his inflamed all the brute in him. The strength was now his. He tore himself free, scrambled to his feet, and hurled Fisher a last time clean through into the scattering crowd, where he lay stunned, too weak to resist the viselike hands that forced his shoulders to the ground.</p>
			<p>Dana hauled Stover to his feet, a little groggy.</p>
			<p>“Some tackling, freshman! Bout’s yours! Call out the heavyweights!”</p>
			<p>Scarcely realizing that it was his captain who had spoken, Dink stood staring down at Fisher, white and conquered, struggling to his feet in the grip of friends.</p>
			<p>“I say, Fisher,” he said impulsively, “I hope I didn’t shake you up too much. I saw red; I didn’t know what I was doing.”</p>
			<p>“You did me all right,” said the sophomore, giving his hand. “That tackle of yours would break a horse in two. Shake!”</p>
			<p>“Thank you,” said Stover, flustered and almost ashamed before the other’s perfect sportsmanship. “Thank you very much, sir!”</p>
			<p>He went to his corner, smothered under frantic slaps and embraces, hearing his name resounding again and again on the thunders of his classmates. The bout had been spectacular; everyone was asking who he was.</p>
			<p>“Stover, eh, of Lawrenceville!”</p>
			<p>“Gee, what a fierce tackler!”</p>
			<p>“Ridiculous for Fisher to be beaten!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, is it? How’d you like to get a fall like that?”</p>
			<p>“Played end.”</p>
			<p>“Captain at Lawrenceville.”</p>
			<p>“He ought to be a wonder.”</p>
			<p>“Say, did you see the face he got on him?”</p>
			<p>“Enough to scare you to death.”</p>
			<p>“It got Fisher, all right.”</p>
			<p>While he was being rubbed down and having his clothes thrust upon him, shivering in every tense muscle, which, now the issue was decided, seemed to have broken from his control, suddenly a hand gripped his, and, looking up, he saw the face of Tompkins, ablaze with the fire of the professional spectator.</p>
			<p>“I’m not shaking hands on your brutal old tackling,” he said, with a look that belied his words. “It’s the other thing⁠—the losing the first fall. Good brain-work, boy; that’s what’ll count in football.”</p>
			<p>The grip of the veteran cut into his hand; in Tompkins’s face also was a reminiscent flash of the fighting face that somehow, in any test, wins half the battle.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The third bout went to the sophomores, Regan, the choice of the class, being nowhere to be found. But the victory was with the freshmen, who, knit suddenly together by the consciousness of a power to rise to emergencies, carried home the candidates in triumph.</p>
			<p>McCarthy, with his arms around Stover as he had done in the old school days after a grueling football contest, bore Dink up to their rooms with joyful, bearlike hugs. Other hands were on him, wafting him up the stairs as though riding a gale.</p>
			<p>“Here, let me down will you, you galoots!” he cried vainly from time to time.</p>
			<p>Hilariously they carried him into the room and dumped him down. Other freshmen, following, came to him, shaking his hand, pounding him on the back.</p>
			<p>“Good boy, Stover!”</p>
			<p>“What’s the use of wrestling, anyhow?”</p>
			<p>“You’re it!”</p>
			<p>“We’re all for you!”</p>
			<p>“The old sophomores thought they had it cinched.”</p>
			<p>“Three cheers for Dink Stover!”</p>
			<p>“One more!”</p>
			<p>“And again!”</p>
			<p>“Yippi!”</p>
			<p>McCarthy, doubled up with laughter, stood in front of him, gazing hilariously, proudly down.</p>
			<p>“You old Dink, you, what right had you to go out for it?”</p>
			<p>“None at all.”</p>
			<p>“How the deuce did you have the nerve?”</p>
			<p>“How?” For the first time the question impressed itself on him. He scratched his head and said simply, unconscious of the wide application of what he said: “Gee! guess I didn’t stop to think how rotten I was.”</p>
			<p>He went to bed, gorgeously happy with the first throbbing, satisfying intoxication of success. The whole world must be concerned with him now. He was no longer unknown; he had emerged, freed himself from the thralling oblivion of the mass.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
