<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
			<p>After the drudgery of the football season he had a few short weeks of gorgeous idleness, during which he browsed through a novel a day, curled up on his window-seat, rolling tobacco clouds through the fog of smokers in the room. He had won his spurs and the right to lounge, and he looked forward eagerly to the rest of the year as a time for reading and the opening up of the friendships of which he had dreamed.</p>
			<p>Old age settled down rapidly upon him, and at eighteen that malady appears in its most virulent form. Perhaps there was a little justification. The test he had gone through had educated him to self-control in its most difficult form. He was not simply the big man of the class, the first to emerge to fame, but the prospective captain of a future Yale eleven. A certain gravity was requisite⁠—moreover, it was due the University. To have seen the burning letters S-T-O-V-E-R actually vibrating on the front pages of metropolitan papers, to have gazed on his distinguished (though slightly smudged) features, ruined by an unfeeling photographer, but disputing nevertheless the public attention with statesmen and champions of the pugilistic ring⁠—to have felt these heavenly sensations at the age of eighteen could not be lightly disguised.</p>
			<p>So he lay back among welcome cushions, book in hand, and listened with a tolerant ear to the rapid-fire comedy of McNab and Buck Waters. He stayed much in his own room, which became a sort of lounging spot where the air was always blue with smoke and a mandolin or guitar was strumming a low refrain or a group near the fireplace was noisy with the hazards of the national game.</p>
			<p>Pretty much everyone of importance in the class dropped in on him. The preliminary visiting period of the sophomore societies was nearly over. With the opening of the winter term the hold-offs and elections would begin. He understood that those who were uncertain wished the advantage of being seen in his company⁠—that his, in fact, was now the “right” crowd.</p>
			<p>He intended to call on several men who interested him: Brockhurst, who had made his appearance with a story in the <i>Lit</i> which announced him as a possible future chairman; Gimbel, about whose opinions and sincerity he was in doubt; and, above all, Regan, who genuinely attracted him. But, somehow, having now nothing to do, his afternoons and evenings seemed always filled, and he continually postponed until the morrow what suggested itself during the day. Besides, there was a complacent delight in being his own master again and of looking forward to such a period of independent languor.</p>
			<p>The first discordant note to intrude itself upon this ideal was a remark of Le Baron’s during one of the evening visits. These embassies were always conducted with punctiliousness and gravity. The inquisitorial sophomores arrived about eight o’clock in groups of three and four. As McCarthy was the object of attention from a different society, Stover, when the former’s inspectors arrived, shook hands gravely, and shortly discovered that he had a letter to post at the corner. When the committee on Stover appeared trimly at the door, McCarthy rose at once to return a hypothetical book, after which the conversation began with about as much spontaneity and zest as would be permitted to a board of alienists sitting in judgment on a victim. The sophomores were embarrassed with their own impromptu dignity, and the freshmen at the constraint of their superiors.</p>
			<p>On one such occasion, after the committee of four had spent fifteen minutes in the grave discussion of a kindergarten topic, and had filed out with funereal solemnity, Le Baron returned for a more intimate conversation.</p>
			<p>Since the night of his introduction to college, Stover had had only occasional glimpses of Le Baron. True, he was generally of the visiting committee that called every other night for perfunctory inspection, but through it all the sophomore had adopted an attitude of almost defensive aloofness and impartiality.</p>
			<p>“I want to talk over some of the men in the class,” said Le Baron, falling into an armchair and picking up a pipe, while his manner changed to naturalness and equality. Stover understood at once that the attitude was a notice served on him of the security of his own position.</p>
			<p>“Dink, I want to know your opinion. What do you think of Brockhurst, for instance?”</p>
			<p>“Brockhurst? Why, I hardly know him.”</p>
			<p>“Is he liked?”</p>
			<p>“Why, yes.”</p>
			<p>“Who are his friends?”</p>
			<p>Stover thought a moment.</p>
			<p>“Why, I think he rather keeps to himself. He strikes me as being⁠—well, a little undeveloped⁠—rather shy.”</p>
			<p>“Do you like him?”</p>
			<p>“I do.”</p>
			<p>“And Schley?”</p>
			<p>The question was put abruptly, Le Baron raising his eyes to get his answer from Stover’s face.</p>
			<p>“Schley?” said Dink, considering a little. “Why, Schley seems to⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Regan?” said Le Baron, satisfied.</p>
			<p>“One of the best in the class!”</p>
			<p>“He seems a rather rough diamond.”</p>
			<p>“He’s proud as Lucifer⁠—but he has more to him than anyone I know.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a question what he’ll do.”</p>
			<p>“I’d back him every time.”</p>
			<p>“You are quite enthusiastic about him,” said Le Baron, looking at him with a little quizzical surprise.</p>
			<p>“He’s a man,” said Stover stoutly.</p>
			<p>“Of course, the football captaincy will probably be between you two.”</p>
			<p>“Regan?” said Stover, amazed.</p>
			<p>“Either you or Regan.”</p>
			<p>Stover had never thought of him as a rival for his dearest ambition. He remained silent, digesting the possibility, aware of Le Baron’s searching inquiry.</p>
			<p>“Of course, you have nine chances out of ten, but the race is a long one.”</p>
			<p>“He would make a good captain,” Stover said slowly.</p>
			<p>“You think so?”</p>
			<p>“I hadn’t thought of it before,” Stover said, with a sudden falling inside, “but he has the stuff in him of a leader all right.”</p>
			<p>“I wish he weren’t quite so set,” said Le Baron. “He hasn’t made a particularly favorable impression on some of the fellows.”</p>
			<p>An involuntary smile came to Stover at the thought of Regan’s probable reception of a committee of inspection.</p>
			<p>“He doesn’t perhaps realize the importance of some things,” he said carefully.</p>
			<p>“He doesn’t,” said Le Baron, who was not without a sense of humor. “It’s a pity, though, for his sake. I wish you’d talk to him a little.”</p>
			<p>“I will.”</p>
			<p>Le Baron rose.</p>
			<p>“By the way, what are you going out for this spring?”</p>
			<p>“This spring?” said Stover, surprised.</p>
			<p>“Ever rowed any?”</p>
			<p>“Never.”</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t make any difference. You learn the stroke quicker⁠—no bad habits.”</p>
			<p>“I’m light as mischief.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know⁠—not for the freshman. We want to stimulate the interest in rowing up here. It’s a good example for a man like you to come out. Ever done anything in baseball or the track?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Rowing’s the stunt for you.” He went toward the door, and turned. “Have a little chat with Regan. I admire the fellow, but he needs to rub up a bit with you fellows and get the sharp edges off him. By the way, when you start rowing I’ll get hold of you and give you a little extra coaching.”</p>
			<p>When McCarthy came grinning through the door, he found Dink, his legs drawn up Turkish fashion, staring rebelliously at the ceiling.</p>
			<p>“Hello! In love, or what?” said Tough, stopping short. “Recovering, perhaps, from the brilliant conversation?”</p>
			<p>“By George, I’m not going out for anything more!” said Dink, between his teeth.</p>
			<p>“Heavens! haven’t you slaved enough?”</p>
			<p>“You bet I have. I’ll be hanged if I’m going through here⁠—just varsity material. I’m going to be a little while my own master.”</p>
			<p>“You think so?” said McCarthy, with a short, incredulous laugh. “Every one’s doing something.” McCarthy was a candidate for the baseball nine.</p>
			<p>“Have you heard anything about Regan?” said Stover, between puffs.</p>
			<p>“In what way?”</p>
			<p>“Have any of the sophomores been around to see him?”</p>
			<p>McCarthy exploded into laughter. “<i>Have</i> they? Didn’t you hear what happened?”</p>
			<p>“No. What?”</p>
			<p>“They spent half the night locating his diggings, and when they got them the old rhinoceros wouldn’t receive them.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?”</p>
			<p>“Hadn’t time, he said, to be fooling with them.”</p>
			<p>“The old chump!”</p>
			<p>“Lucky dog,” said McCarthy, between his teeth. “I wish I had the nerve to do the same.”</p>
			<p>“What the deuce?”</p>
			<p>“It makes me boil! I can’t sit up and have a solemn bunch of fools look me over. I can’t be natural.”</p>
			<p>“It’s give and take,” said Dink, smiling. “You’ll think yourself the lord of the universe next year.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not so sure,” said McCarthy, gloomily.</p>
			<p>“Rats!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you⁠—you’ve a cinch,” said McCarthy. “They’re not picking you to pieces and dissecting you. Half the crowd that come to see me have got some friends in the class they’d rather see in than me. I’m darned uncertain, and I know it.”</p>
			<p>Stover, who believed the contrary, laughed at him. He rose and went out, determined to find Regan and make him understand conditions.</p>
			<p>His walk led him along the dark ways of College Street into the forgotten street where, under the roof of a bakery, Regan had found a breathing-hole for five dollars a month.</p>
			<p>For the first time a little feeling of jealousy went through Stover as he swung along. Why should he help build up the man who might snatch from him his ambition? Why the deuce had Le Baron mentioned Regan as a possible captain? No one else thought of such a thing. Compared to him, Regan was a novice in football knowledge and experience. Still, it was true that the man had a stalwart, unflinching way of moving on that impressed. There was a danger there with which he must reckon.</p>
			<p>He found Regan in carpet slippers and sweater, bending grimly over the next day’s Greek as if it were a rock to be shattered with the weight of his back.</p>
			<p>“8⁠–⁠16⁠–⁠6⁠–⁠9⁠–⁠47,” said Stover, in a hallo, giving the signal that had sent him through the center.</p>
			<p>Regan started up.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Dink, old bantam; glad to hear your voice.”</p>
			<p>Stover entered, with a glance at the room. A cot, a bureau, a washstand reinforced by ropes, a pine table scorched and blistered, and a couple of chairs were the entire equipment. Half the gas globe was left and two-thirds of the yellow-green shade at the window. In the corner was the battle-scarred valise which had brought Regan’s whole effects to college.</p>
			<p>“Boning out the Greek?” said Stover, placing a straight chair against the wall so that his feet could find the ledge of the window.</p>
			<p>“Wrestling with it.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you use a trot?” said Stover in some surprise, perceiving the absence of the handy, literal shortcut to recitation.</p>
			<p>“Can’t afford to.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?” said Stover, wondering if Regan was a gospel shark, after all.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got too much to learn,” said Regan, leaning back and elevating his legs in the national position. “You know something; I don’t. You can bluff; I’m a rotten bluffer. I’ve got to train my whole mind, lick it into shape and make it work for me, if I’m going to do what I want.”</p>
			<p>“Tom, what are you aiming for?”</p>
			<p>“You’d never guess.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what?”</p>
			<p>“Politics.”</p>
			<p>“Politics?” said Stover, opening his mouth.</p>
			<p>“Exactly,” said Regan, puffing at his corncob pipe. “I want to go back out West and get in the fight. It’s a glorious fight out there. A real fight. You don’t know the West, Stover.”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“We believe in something out there, and we get up and fight for it⁠—independence, new ideas, clean government, hard fighters.”</p>
			<p>“I hadn’t thought of you that way,” said Stover, more and more surprised.</p>
			<p>“That’s the only thing I care about,” said Regan frankly. “I’ve come from nothing, and I believe in that nothing. But to do anything I’ve got to get absolute hold of myself.”</p>
			<p>“Tom, you ought to get in with the fellows more. You ought to know all kinds,” said Stover, feeling an opening.</p>
			<p>“I will, when I get the right,” said Regan, nodding.</p>
			<p>“Why the devil don’t you let the University help you out a while? You can pay it back,” said Stover angrily.</p>
			<p>“Never! I know it could be done, but not for me,” said Regan, shaking his head. “What I need is the hardest things to come up against, and I’m not going to dodge them.”</p>
			<p>“Still, you ought to be with us; you ought to make friends.”</p>
			<p>“I’m going to do that,” said Regan, nodding. “I’m going to get in at South Middle after Christmas and perhaps get some work in the Coop.” He took up a sheet of paper jotted over with figures. “I’m about fifty dollars to the good; a couple of weeks’ work at Christmas will bring that up about twenty more. If I can make a hundred and fifty this summer I’ll have a good start. I want to do it, because I want to play football. It’s bully! I like the fight in it!”</p>
			<p>“What sort of work will you do?” said Stover curiously.</p>
			<p>“I may go in the surface cars down in New York.”</p>
			<p>“Driving?”</p>
			<p>“Sure. They get good pay. I could get work in the mines⁠—I’ve done that⁠—but it’s pretty tough.”</p>
			<p>“But, Tom, what the deuce do you pick out the hardest grind for? Make friends with fellows who only want to know you and like you, and you’ll get a dozen openings where you’ll make twice what you get at manual labor.”</p>
			<p>“Well, there’s this to it,” said Regan ruminatively, “It’s an opportunity I won’t always have.”</p>
			<p>“What the deuce do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“The opportunity to meet the fellow who gets the grind of life⁠—to understand what he thinks of himself, and especially what he thinks of those above him. I won’t have many more chances to see him on the ground floor, and some day I’ve got to know him well enough to convince him. See? By the way, it would be a good college course for a lot of you fellows if you got in touch with the real thing also.”</p>
			<p>“Are you a socialist?” said Stover, who vaguely associated the term with dynamite and destruction.</p>
			<p>“I may be, but I don’t know it.”</p>
			<p>“I say, Tom, do you go in for debating and all that sort of thing?”</p>
			<p>“You bet I do; but it comes hard as hen’s teeth.”</p>
			<p>Stover, who had waited for an opportunity to volunteer advice, finding no opening, resolved to take the dilemma by the horns.</p>
			<p>“Tom, I think you’re wrong about one thing.”</p>
			<p>“What’s that?”</p>
			<p>“Holding aloof so much.”</p>
			<p>“Particularly what?”</p>
			<p>“I’m thinking about sophomore societies, for one thing. Why the deuce don’t you give the fellows a chance to help you?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you mean the dinky little bunch that came around to call on me,” said Regan thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“Yes. Now, why turn them out?”</p>
			<p>“Why, they bored me, and, besides, I haven’t time for anything like that. There are too many big things here.”</p>
			<p>“They can help you like the mischief, now and afterward.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks; I’ll help myself. Besides, I don’t want to get their point of view.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?”</p>
			<p>“Too limited.”</p>
			<p>“Have you been talking to Gimbel?” said Stover, wondering.</p>
			<p>“Gimbel? No; why?”</p>
			<p>“Because he is organizing the class against them.”</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t interest me, either.”</p>
			<p>“What do you make of Gimbel?”</p>
			<p>“Gimbel’s all right; a good politician.”</p>
			<p>“Is he sincere?”</p>
			<p>“Every one’s sincere.”</p>
			<p>“You mean everyone’s convinced of his own sincerity.”</p>
			<p>“Sure; easiest person in the world to convince.”</p>
			<p>Stover laughed a little consciously, wondering for a brief moment if the remark could be directed at him. Curiously enough, the more the blunt antagonism of Regan impressed him, the more he was reassured that the man was too radical ever to challenge his leadership. He rose to go, his conscience satisfied by the halfhearted appeal he had made.</p>
			<p>“I say, Dink,” said Regan, laying his huge paw on his shoulder, “don’t get your head turned by this social business.”</p>
			<p>“Heavens, no!”</p>
			<p>“ ’Cause there’s some real stuff in you, boy, and some day it’s coming out. Thanks, by the way, for wanting to make me a society favorite.”</p>
			<p>Dink left with a curious mixture of emotions. Regan always had an ascendency over him he could not explain. It irritated him that he could not shake it off, and yet he was genuinely chained to the man.</p>
			<p>“Why the deuce did Le Baron put that in my head?” he said to himself, for the tenth time. “If Regan beats me out for captain it’ll only be because he’s older and has got a certain way about him. Well, I suppose if I’m to be captain I’ve got to close up more; I can’t go cutting up like a kid. I’ve got to be older.”</p>
			<p>He resolved to be more dignified, more melancholy, shorter of speech, and consistent in gravity. For the first time he felt what it meant to calculate his chances. Before, everything had come to him easily. He had missed the struggle and the heartburnings. Now, suddenly, a shadow had fallen across the open road, the shadow of one whom he had regarded as a sort of protégé. He had thoughts of which he was ashamed, for at the bottom he was glad that Regan would not be of a sophomore society⁠—that that advantage would be denied him; and, a little guiltily, he wondered if he had tried as hard as he might have to show him the opportunity.</p>
			<p>“If they ever know him as I do,” he said, with a generous revulsion, “he’ll be the biggest thing in the class.” York Street and the busy windows of Pierson Hall came into his vision. A group of sophomores, ending their tour of visits, passed him, saluting him cordially. He thought all at once, with a sharp rebellion, how much freer Regan was, with his own set purpose, than he under the tutelage of Le Baron.</p>
			<p>“I wonder what I’d do if no darn sophomore societies existed,” he said to himself thoughtfully. And then, going up the stairs to his room, he said to McCarthy as he entered: “I guess, after all, I’ll get out and slave again this spring⁠—might as well heel the crew. I’m just varsity material⁠—that’s all!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
