<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<p>He found the house in York Street, a low, whitewashed frame building, luminous under the black canopy of the overtowering elms. At the door there was a little resistance and a guarded voice cried:</p>
			<p>“What do you want?”</p>
			<p>“I want to get in.”</p>
			<p>“What for?”</p>
			<p>“Because I want to.”</p>
			<p>“Very sorry,” said McNab’s rather squeaky voice⁠—“most particular sorry; but this house is infected with yellow fever and the rickets, and we wouldn’t for the world share it with the sophomore class⁠—oh, no!”</p>
			<p>A light began to dawn over Stover.</p>
			<p>“I’m rooming here,” he said.</p>
			<p>“What’s your name and general style of beauty?”</p>
			<p>“Stover, and I’ve got a twitching foot.”</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t you say so?” said McNab, who then admitted him. “Pardon me. The sophomores are getting so fidgety, you know, hopping all up and down. My name’s McNab⁠—German extraction. Came up on the train, ahead of you⁠—thought you were a sophomore, you put on such a beautiful side. Here, put on that chain.”</p>
			<p>“Hazing?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, indeed. Just a few members of the weakling class above us might get too fond of us; just must see us⁠—welcome to Yale and all that sort of thing. I hate sentimental exhibitions, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Is McCarthy here?” said Stover, laughing.</p>
			<p>“Your wife is waiting for you most anxiously.”</p>
			<p>“Hello, is that Dink?” called down McCarthy’s exuberant voice at this moment.</p>
			<p>Stover went up the stairs like a terrier, answering the joyful whoop with a war-cry of his own. The next moment he and McCarthy were pummeling each other, wrestling about the room, to the dire danger of furniture and crockery. When this sentimental moment had exhausted itself physically, McCarthy bore him to the back of the house, saying:</p>
			<p>“We don’t want to show our light in front just yet. We’ve got a corking lot in the house⁠—best of the Andover crowd. Come on; I’ll introduce you. You remember Hunter, who played against me at tackle? He’s here.”</p>
			<p>There were half a dozen loitering on the window-seat and beds in the pipe-ridden room.</p>
			<p>Hunter, in shirt sleeves, sorting the contents of his trunk, came forward at once.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Stover, how are you?”</p>
			<p>“How are you?”</p>
			<p>No sooner did their hands clasp than a change came to Dink. He was face to face with the big man of the Andover crowd, measuring him and being measured. The sudden burst of boyish affection that had sent him into McCarthy’s arms was gone. This man could not help but be a leader in the class. He was older than the rest, but how much it would have been hard to say. He examined, analyzed, and deliberated. He knew what lay before him. He would make no mistakes. He was carried away by no sentimental enthusiasm. Everything about him was reserved⁠—his cordiality, the quiet grip of his hand, the smile of welcome, and the undecipherable estimate in his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Will you follow me or shall I follow you?” each seemed to say in the first contact, which was a challenge.</p>
			<p>“How are you?” said Stover, shaking hands with someone else; and the tone was the tone of Hunter.</p>
			<p>There were three others in the room: Hunter’s roommate, Stone, a smiling, tall, good-looking fellow who shook his hand an extra period; Saunders, silent, retired behind his spectacles; and Logan, who roomed with McNab, who sunk his shoulders as he shook hands and looked into Stover’s eyes intensely as he said, “Awful glad; awful glad to know you.”</p>
			<p>“Have a pipe⁠—cigarette⁠—anything?” said Hunter over his shoulder, from the trunk to which he had returned.</p>
			<p>“No, thanks.”</p>
			<p>“Started training?”</p>
			<p>“Sort of.”</p>
			<p>“Take a chair and make yourself at home,” said Hunter warmly, but without turning.</p>
			<p>The talk was immediately of what each was going to do. Stone was out for the glee club, already planning to take singing lessons in the contest for the leadership, three years off. Saunders was to start for the <i>News</i>. Logan had made drawings during the summer and was out for the <i>Record</i>. Hunter was trying for his class team and the crew. Only McNab was defiant.</p>
			<p>“None of that for me,” he said, on his back, legs in the air, blowing rings against the ceiling. “I’m for a good time, the best in life. It may be a short one, but it’ll be a lulu!”</p>
						<p>“You’ll be out heeling the <i>Record</i>, Dopey, inside of a month,” said Hunter quietly.</p>
			<p>“Never, by the Great Horned Spoon⁠—never!”</p>
			<p>“And you’ll get a tutor, Dopey, and stay with us.”</p>
			<p>“Never! I came to love and to be loved. I’m a lovely thing; that’s sufficient,” said McNab, with a grimace to his elfish face. “I will not be harnessed up. I will not heel.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, you will.”</p>
			<p>Hunter’s tone had not varied. Stover, studying him, wondered if he had marked out the route of Stone, Saunders, and Logan, just as he felt that McNab would sooner or later conform to the will of the man who had determined to succeed himself and make his own crowd succeed.</p>
			<p>Reynolds, a sophomore, an old Andover man, dropped in. Again it was but question of the same challenge, addressed to each:</p>
			<p>“What are you trying for?”</p>
			<p>The arrival of the sophomore, who installed himself in easy majesty in the armchair and addressed his questions with a quick, analytical staccato, produced somewhat the effect of a suddenly opened window. Even McNab was unwillingly impressed, and Hunter, closing the trunk, allowed the conversation to be guided by Reynolds’ initiative.</p>
			<p>He was a fiery, alert, rather undersized fellow, who had been the first in his class to make the <i>News</i>, and was supposed to be in line for that all-important chairmanship.</p>
			<p>Inside of five minutes he had gone through the possibilities of each man, advising briefly in a quick, businesslike manner. To Stover he seemed symbolic of the rarefied contending nervousness of the place, a personality that suddenly threw open to him all the nervous panorama of the struggle for position which had already begun.</p>
			<p>On top of which there arrived Rogers, a junior, good-natured, popular, important. At once, to Stover’s amused surprise, the role was reversed. Reynolds, from the enthroned autocrat, became the respectful audience, answered a few questions, and found a quick opportunity to leave.</p>
			<p>“Let’s go in front and have a little fun,” said Rogers.</p>
			<p>Somewhat perplexed, Stover led the way to their room.</p>
			<p>“Light up,” said Rogers, with a chuckle. “There’s a sophomore bunch outside just ready to tumble.”</p>
			<p>Rogers’ presence brought back a certain ease; they were no longer on inspection, and even in his manner was a more open cordiality than he had showed toward Reynolds. That under all this was some graduated system of authority Stover was slowly perceiving, when all at once from the street there rose a shout:</p>
			<p>“Turn down that light!”</p>
			<p>“Freshmen, turn down that light!”</p>
			<p>“Turn it down slowly,” said Rogers, with a gesture to McNab.</p>
			<p>“Faster!”</p>
			<p>“All the way down!”</p>
			<p>“Turn it up suddenly,” said Rogers.</p>
			<p>An angry swelling protest arose:</p>
			<p>“Turn that down!”</p>
			<p>“You freshmen!”</p>
			<p>“Turn it down!”</p>
			<p>“The freshest of the fresh!”</p>
			<p>“Here, let me work ’em up,” said Rogers, going to the gas-jet.</p>
						<p>Under his tantalizing manipulation the noise outside grew to the proportions of a riot.</p>
			<p>“Come on and get the bloody freshmen!”</p>
			<p>“Ride ’em on a rail!”</p>
			<p>“Say, are we going to stand for this?”</p>
			<p>“Down with that light!”</p>
			<p>“Let’s run ’em out!”</p>
			<p>“Break in the door!”</p>
			<p>“Out with the freshman!”</p>
			<p>Below came a sudden rush of feet. Rogers, abandoning the gas-jet, draped himself nonchalantly on the couch that faced the door.</p>
			<p>“Well, here comes the shindy,” thought Stover, with a joyful tensity in every muscle.</p>
			<p>The hubbub stormed up the hall, shot open the door, and choked the passage with the suddenly revealed fury of angry faces.</p>
			<p>“Hello,” said Rogers’ quiet voice. “Well, what do <i>you</i> want?”</p>
			<p>No sooner had the barbaric front ranks beheld the languid, slightly annoyed junior than the fury of battle vanished like a flurry of wind across the water. From behind the more concealed began to murmur:</p>
			<p>“Oh, beans!”</p>
			<p>“A lemon!”</p>
			<p>“Rubber!”</p>
			<p>“Sold!”</p>
			<p>“Well, what is it?” said Rogers sharply, sending a terrific frown at the sheepish leaders.</p>
			<p>At this curt reminder there was a shifting movement in the rear, which rapidly communicated itself to the stammering, apologetic front ranks; the door was closed in ludicrous haste, and down the stairs resounded the stampede of the baffled host.</p>
						<p>“My, they are a fierce lot, these man-eating sophomores, aren’t they?” said Rogers, giving way to his laughter. And then, a little apologetically, but with a certain twinkle of humor, he added: “Don’t worry, boys; there was no one in that crowd who’ll do you any harm. However, I might just as well chaperon you to your eating-joint.”</p>
			<p>“Le Baron is going to take me out with him,” said Stover, as they rose to go.</p>
			<p>“Hugh Le Baron?” said Rogers, with a new interest.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t get your name.”</p>
			<p>“Stover.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! Captain down at Lawrenceville, weren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Well, wish you good luck,” said Rogers, with a more appraising eye. “You’ve got an opening this year. Drop in and see me sometime, will you? I mean it.”</p>
			<p>“See you later, Stover,” said Hunter, resting his hand on his shoulder with a little friendly touch.</p>
			<p>“Bully you’re with us,” said Stone.</p>
			<p>“Come in and chin a little later,” said Logan.</p>
			<p>Saunders gave him a duck of the head, with unconcealed admiration in his embarrassed manner.</p>
			<p>McCarthy went with them. Stover, left alone, measured the length of the room, smiling to himself. It was all quite amusing, especially when his was the fixed point of view.</p>
			<p>In a few moments Le Baron arrived. Together they went across the campus, now swarming like ant runs. At every step Le Baron was halted by a greeting. Recognition was in the air, turbulent, boyish, exaggerated, rising to the pitch of a scream or accomplished in a bear dance; and through it all was the same vibrant, minor note of the ceaseless activity.</p>
			<p>It was the air Stover loved. He waited respectfully, while Le Baron shook a score of hands, impatient for the moment to begin and the opportunity to have his name told from lip to lip.</p>
			<p>“I’m going to be captain at Yale,” he said to himself, with a sudden fantastic, grandiloquent fury. “I will if it’s in me.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll run down to Heub’s,” said Le Baron, free at last, “get a good last meal before going into training. You look in pretty fit shape.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve kept so all summer.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s over in your house?”</p>
			<p>Stover named them.</p>
			<p>“They weren’t my crowd at Andover, but they’re good fellows,” said Le Baron, listening critically. “Hunter especially. Here we are.”</p>
			<p>A minute later they had found a table in the restaurant crowded with upper classmen, and Le Baron was glancing down the menu.</p>
			<p>“An oyster cocktail, a planked steak⁠—rare; order the rest later.” He turned to Stover. “Guess we’d better cut out the drinks. We’ll stand the gaff better tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>There was in his voice a quiet possession, as if he had already assumed the reins of Stover’s career.</p>
			<p>“Are you out for the eleven again?” said Stover respectfully.</p>
			<p>“Yes. I’ll never do any better than a sub, but that’s what counts. We’re up against an awfully stiff proposition this year. The team’s got to be built out of nothing. There’s Dana, the captain, now, over at the table in the corner.”</p>
						<p>“Where?” said Stover, fired at the thought.</p>
			<p>Le Baron pointed out the table, detailing to him the names of some of the coaches who were grouped there.</p>
			<p>When Stover had dared to gaze for the first time on the face of the majestic leader, he experienced a certain shock. The group of past heroes about him were laughing, exchanging reminiscences of past combats; but the face of Dana was set in seriousness, too sensitive to the responsibility that lay heavier than the honor on his young shoulders. Stover had not thought of his leader so.</p>
			<p>“I guess it’s going to be a bad season,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Yes; we may have to take our medicine this year.”</p>
			<p>Several friends of Le Baron’s stopped to shake hands, greeting Stover always with that appraising glance which had amused him in Reynolds who had first sat in inquisition.</p>
			<p>He began to be conscious of an ever-widening gulf separating him and Le Baron, imposed by all the subtle, still uncomprehended incidents of the night, which gradually made him see that he had found, not a friend, but a protector. A certain natural impulsiveness left him; he answered in short sentences, resenting a little this sudden, not yet defined sense of subjection.</p>
			<p>But the hum of diners was about him, the unknown intoxication of lights, the prevailing note of joy, the free concourse of men, the vibrant note of good fellowship, good cheer, and the eager seizing of the zest of the hour. The men he saw were the men who had succeeded⁠—a success which unmistakably surrounded them. He, too, wished for success acutely, almost with a throbbing, gluttonous feeling, sitting there unknown.</p>
			<p>All at once Dana, passing across the room, stopped for a handshake and a word of greeting to Le Baron. Stover was introduced, rising precipitately, to the imminent danger of his plate.</p>
			<p>“Stover from Lawrenceville?” said Dana.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>The captain’s eye measured him carefully, taking in the wiry, spare frame, the heavy shoulders, and the nervous hands, and then stayed on the clean-cut jaw, the direct blue glance, and the rebellious rise of sandy hair.</p>
			<p>“End, of course,” he said at last.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“About a hundred and fifty-four?”</p>
			<p>“One hundred and fifty, sir, stripped.”</p>
			<p>“Ever played in the back field?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Report with the varsity squad tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“There’s a type of man we’re proud of,” said Le Baron. “Came here from Exeter, waited at Commons first two years; everyone likes him. He has a tough proposition here this year, though⁠—supposing we dig out.”</p>
			<p>In the room the laughter was rising, and all the little nervous noises of the clash of plate and cutlery. Stover would have liked to stay, to yield to the contagion, to watch with eager eyes the opposite types, all under the careless spell of the beginning year.</p>
			<p>The city was black about them as they stepped forth, the giant elms flattened overhead against the blurred mists of the night, like curious water weeds seen from below.</p>
			<p>They went in silence directly toward the campus. Once or twice Le Baron started to speak and then stopped. At length he said:</p>
			<p>“Come this way.”</p>
						<p>They passed by Osborne Hall, and the Brick Row with the choked display of the Coop below, and, crossing to the dark mass of the Old Library, sat down on the steps.</p>
			<p>Before Stover stretched all the lighted panorama of the college and the multiplied strewn lights against the mysteries of stone and brick⁠—lights that drew him to the quiet places of a hundred growing existencies⁠—affected him like the lights of the crowded restaurant and the misty reflections of the glassy streets. It was the night, the mysterious night that suddenly had come into his boyish knowledge.</p>
			<p>It was immense, unfathomable⁠—this spectacle of a massed multitude. It was all confounded, stirring, ceaseless, feverish in its brilliant gaiety, fleeting, transitory, mocking. It was of the stage, theatric. It brought theatric emotions, too keenly sensitized, too sharply overwhelming. He wished to flee from it in despair of ever conquering, as he wished to conquer, this world of stirring ambitions and shadowy and fleeting years.</p>
			<p>“I’m going to do for you,” said Le Baron’s voice, breaking the charm⁠—“I’m going to do what someone did for me when I came here last year.”</p>
			<p>He paused a moment, a little, too, under the spell of the night, perhaps, seeking how best to choose his words.</p>
			<p>“It is a queer place you’re coming into, and many men fail for not understanding it in time. I’m going to tell you a few things.”</p>
			<p>Again he stopped. Stover, waiting, heard across from the blazing sides of Farnam a piano’s thin, rushing notes. Nearer, from some window unseen, a mandolin was quavering. Voices, calling, mingled in softened confusion.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Charley Bangs⁠—stick out your head.”</p>
			<p>“We want Billy Brown.”</p>
						<p>“Hello, there!”</p>
			<p>“Tubby, this way!”</p>
			<p>Then this community of faint sounds was lost as, from the fence, a shapeless mass beyond began to send its song towards him.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“When freshmen first we came to Yale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fol-de-rol-de-rol-rol-rol.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Examinations made us pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fol-de-rol-de-rol-rol-rol.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“What do you know about the society system here?” said Le Baron abruptly.</p>
			<p>“Why, I know⁠—there are three senior societies: Skull and Bones, Keys, Wolf’s-Head⁠—but I guess that’s all I do know.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll hear a good deal of talk inside the college, and out of it, too, about the system. It has its faults. But it’s the best system there is, and it makes Yale what it is today. It makes fellows get out and work; it gives them ambitions, stops loafing and going to seed, and keeps a pretty good, clean, temperate atmosphere about the place.”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing at all about it,” said Stover, perplexed.</p>
			<p>“The seniors have fifteen in each; they give out their elections end of junior year, end of May. That’s what we’re all working for.”</p>
			<p>“Already?” said Stover involuntarily.</p>
			<p>“There are fellows in your class,” said Le Baron, “who’ve been working all summer, so as to get ahead in the competition for the <i>Lit</i> or the <i>Record</i>, or to make the leader of the glee club⁠—fellows, of course, who know.”</p>
						<p>“But that’s three years off.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it’s three years off,” said Le Baron quietly. “Then there are the junior fraternities; but they’re large, and at present don’t count much, except you have to make them. Then there are what are called sophomore societies.” He hesitated a moment. “They are very important.”</p>
			<p>“Do you belong?” asked Stover innocently.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Le Baron, after another hesitation. “Of course, we don’t discuss our societies here. Others will tell you about them. But here’s where your first test will come in.”</p>
			<p>Then came another lull. Stover, troubled, frowning, sat staring at the brilliant windows across which passed, from time to time, a sudden shadow. The groups at the fence were singing a football song, with a marching swing to it, that had so often caught up his loyal soul as he had sat shivering in the grandstand for the game to begin. It was not all so simple⁠—no, not at all simple. It wasn’t as he had thought. It was complex, a little disturbing.</p>
			<p>“This college is made up of all sorts of elements,” said Le Baron, at last. “And it is not easy to run it. Now, in every class there are just a small number of fellows who are able to do it and who will do it. They form the real crowd. All the rest don’t count. Now, Stover, you’re going to have a chance at something big on the football side; but that is not all. You might make captain of the eleven and miss out on a senior election. You’re going to be judged by your friends, and it is just as easy to know the right crowd as the wrong.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean by the right crowd?” said Stover, conscious of just a little antagonism.</p>
			<p>“The right crowd?” said Le Baron, a little perplexed to define so simple a thing. “Why, the crowd that is doing things, working for Yale; the crowd⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That the class ahead picks out to lead us,” said Stover abruptly.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Le Baron frankly; “and it won’t be a bad judgment. Money alone won’t land a man in it, and there’ll be some in it who work their way through college. On the whole, it’s about the crowd you’ll want to know all through life.”</p>
			<p>“I see,” said Stover. His clasp tightened over his knees, and he was conscious of a certain growing uncomfortable sensation. He liked Le Baron⁠—he had looked up to him, in a way. Of course, it was all said in kindness, and yet⁠—</p>
			<p>“I’m frankly aristocratic in my point of view”⁠—he heard the well-modulated voice continue⁠—“and what I say others think. I’m older than most of my class, and I’ve seen a good deal of the world at home and abroad. You may think the world begins outside of college. It doesn’t; it begins right here. You want to make the friends that will help you along, here and outside. Don’t lose sight of your opportunities, and be careful how you choose.</p>
			<p>“Now, by that I mean don’t make your friends too quickly. Get to know the different crowds, but don’t fasten to individuals until you see how things work out. This rather surprises you, doesn’t it? Perhaps you don’t like it.”</p>
			<p>“It does sort of surprise me,” said Stover, who did not answer what he meant.</p>
			<p>“Stover,” said Le Baron, resting a hand on his knee, “I like you. I liked you from the first time we lined up in that Andover-Lawrenceville game. You’ve got the stuff in you to make the sort of leader we need at Yale. That’s why I’m trying to make you see this thing as it is. You come from a school that doesn’t send many fellows here. You haven’t the fellows ahead pulling for you, the way the other crowds have. I don’t want you to make any mistake. Remember, you’re going to be watched from now on.”</p>
			<p>“Watched?” said Stover, frowning.</p>
			<p>“Yes; everything you do, everything you say⁠—that’s how you’ll be judged. That’s why I’m telling you these things.”</p>
			<p>“I appreciate it,” said Stover, but without enthusiasm.</p>
			<p>“Now, you’ve got a chance to make good on the eleven this year. If you do, you stand in line for the captaincy senior year. It lies with you to be one of the big men in the class. And this is the way to do it: get to know everyone in the class right off.”</p>
			<p>“What!” said Stover, genuinely surprised.</p>
			<p>“I mean, bow to everyone; call them by name: but hold yourself apart,” said Le Baron. “Make fellows come to you. Don’t talk too much. Hold yourself in. Keep out of the crowd that is out booze-fighting⁠—or, when you’re with them, keep your head. There are a lot of fellows here, with friends ahead of them, who can cut loose a certain amount; but it’s dangerous. If you want to make what you ought to make of yourself, Stover, you’ve got to prove yourself; you’ve got to keep yourself well in hand.”</p>
			<p>Stover suddenly comprehended that Le Baron was exposing his own theory, that he, prospective captain of the crew, was imposing on himself.</p>
			<p>“Don’t ticket yourself for drinking.”</p>
			<p>“I won’t.”</p>
			<p>“Or get known for gambling⁠—oh, I’m not preaching a moral lesson; only, what you do, do quietly.”</p>
						<p>“I understand.”</p>
			<p>“And another thing: no fooling around women; that isn’t done here⁠—that’ll queer you absolutely.”</p>
			<p>“Of course.”</p>
			<p>“Now, you’ve got to do a certain amount of studying here. Better do it the first year and get in with the faculty.”</p>
			<p>“I will.”</p>
			<p>“There it is,” said Le Baron, suddenly extending his hand toward the lighted college. “Isn’t it worth working for⁠—to win out in the end? And, Stover, it’s easy enough when you know how. Play the game as others are playing it. It’s a big game, and it’ll follow you all through life. There it is; it’s up to you. Keep your head clear and see straight.”</p>
			<p>The gesture of Le Baron, half seen in the darkness, brought a strange trouble to Stover. It was as if, at the height of the eager confidence of his youth, someone had whispered in his ear and a shadowy hand had held before his eyes a gigantic temptation.</p>
			<p>“Are there any questions you want to ask me?” said Le Baron, with a new feeling of affection toward the unprotected freshman whom he had so generously advised.</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>They sat silently. And all at once, as Stover gazed, from the high, misty walls and the elm-tops confounded in the night, a monstrous hand seemed to stretch down, impending over him, and the carefree windows suddenly to be transformed into myriad eyes, set on him in inquisition⁠—eyes that henceforth indefatigably, remorselessly would follow him.</p>
			<p>And with it something snapped, something fragile⁠—the unconscious, simple democracy of boyhood. And, as it went, it went forever. This was the world rushing in, dividing the hosts. This was the parting of the ways. The standards of judgment were the world’s. It was not what he had thought. It was no longer the simple struggle. It was complex, disturbing, incomprehensible. To win he would have to change.</p>
			<p>“It’s been good of you to tell me all this,” he said, giving his hand to Le Baron, and the words sounded hollow.</p>
			<p>“Think over what I’ve said to you.”</p>
			<p>“I will.”</p>
			<p>“A man is known by his friends; remember that, Stover, if you don’t anything else!”</p>
			<p>“It’s awfully good of you.”</p>
			<p>“I like you, Dink,” said Le Baron, shaking hands warmly; “now you know the game, go in and win.”</p>
			<p>“It’s awfully good of you,” said Stover aimlessly. He stood watching Le Baron’s strong, aristocratic figure go swinging across the dim campus in a straight, undeviating, well-calculated path.</p>
			<p>“It’s awfully good of him,” he said mechanically, “awfully good. What a wonder he is!”</p>
			<p>And yet, and yet, he could not define the new feeling⁠—he was but barely conscious of it; was it rebellion or was it a lurking disappointment?</p>
			<p>He stood alone, looking at the new world. It was no longer the world of the honest day. It was brilliant, fascinating, alluring, awakening strange, poignant emotions⁠—but it was another world, and the way to it had just been shown him.</p>
			<p>He turned abruptly and went toward his room, troubled, wondering why he was so troubled, vainly seeking the reason, knowing not that it lay in the destruction of a fragile thing⁠—his first illusion.</p>
			</section>
	</body>
</html>
