<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
			<p>One result of Stover’s sobering experience with Fanny Le Roy was that he met the problem of the senior elections with directness and honesty. What Brockhurst had said of the injurious effect of secrecy and ceremony on the imagination had always been with him. Yet in his desire to stand high in the eyes of Jean Story, to win the honors she prized, he had quibbled over the question. Now the glimpse he had had into the inscrutable verities of human tragedy had all at once lifted him above the importance of local standards, and left him with but one desire⁠—to be true to himself.</p>
			<p>The tests that had come to him in his college life had brought with them a maturity of view beyond that of his fellows. Now that he seriously debated the question, he said to himself that he saw great evils in the system: that on the average intelligence this thraldom to formula and awe at the assumption of mystery had undeniably a narrowing effect, unworthy of a great university dedicated to liberty of thought and action. He saw that while certain individuals, such as Hungerford and Regan, laughed at the bugbear of secrecy, and went their way unconcerned, a great number, more impressionable, had been ruled from the beginning by fear alone.</p>
			<p>With the aims and purposes of Skull and Bones he was in thorough sympathy⁠—their independence of judgment, their seeking out of men who had to contend with poverty, their desire to reward ambition and industry and character⁠—but the more he freely acknowledged their influence for democracy and simplicity at Yale, the more he revolted at the unnecessary fetish of it all.</p>
			<p>“They should command respect and not fear. By George, that’s where I stand. All this rigmarole is ridiculous, and it’s ridiculous that it ever affected me; it is of the middle ages⁠—outgrown.”</p>
			<p>Then a problem placed itself before him. Admitting that he had even the ghost of a chance of being tapped, ought he to go into a senior society feeling as he did about so many of its observances, secretly resolved on their elimination? Finally, a week before Tap Day, he decided to go to Judge Story and frankly state his case, letting him know that he preferred thus to give notice of his beliefs.</p>
			<p>When he arrived at the Story home the Judge was upstairs in his study. Jean, alone in the parlor, looked up in surprise at his expressed intention to see her father. Since her letter they had never been alone. Stover had avoided it with his shrinking from sympathy, and, perhaps guessing his temperament, she had made no attempt to go beyond the safe boundaries of formal intercourse.</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed, Dad’s upstairs,” she said. Then she added a little anxiously: “You look serious⁠—is it a very serious matter?”</p>
			<p>He hesitated, knowing instinctively that she would oppose him.</p>
			<p>“It’s something that’s been on my mind for a long time,” he said evasively; and he added with a smile, “It’s what you call my quixotic fit.”</p>
			<p>“It’s about Skull and Bones,” she said instantly.</p>
			<p>“Yes, it is.”</p>
			<p>“What are you going to say?”</p>
			<p>“I’m going to tell him just where I stand⁠—just what I’ve come to believe about the whole business.”</p>
			<p>“And what’s that?”</p>
			<p>“That Skull and Bones, which does a great good here⁠—I believe it⁠—also does a great deal of harm; all of which is unnecessary and a weakness in its system. In a word, I’ve come to the point where I believe secrecy is un-American, undemocratic and stultifying; and, as I say, totally unnecessary. I should always be against it.”</p>
			<p>“But aren’t you exaggerating the importance of it all?” she said hastily.</p>
			<p>“No, I’m not,” he said. “I used to silence myself with that, but I see the thing working out too plainly.”</p>
			<p>“But why speak about it?”</p>
			<p>“Because I don’t think it’s honest not to. Of course,” he added immediately, “I have about one chance in a thousand⁠—perhaps that’s why I’m so all-fired direct about it.”</p>
			<p>“I wish you wouldn’t,” she said, rising and coming towards him. “It might offend them terribly; you never know.”</p>
			<p>He shook his head, though her eagerness gave him a sudden happiness.</p>
			<p>“No, I’ve thought it out a long while, and I’ve decided. It all goes back to that sophomore society scrap. I made up my mind then I wasn’t going to compromise, and I’m not now.”</p>
			<p>“But I want to see you go Bones,” she said illogically, in a rush. “After all you’ve gone through, you must go Bones!”</p>
			<p>He did not answer this.</p>
			<p>“Oh, it’s so unnecessary,” she said. “No one but you would think of it!”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be angry with me,” he said, a little troubled.</p>
			<p>“I am⁠—it’s absurd!” she said, turning away with a flash of temper.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” he said, and went up the stairs.</p>
			<p>When he returned, after an interview which, needless to say, had somewhat surprised the Judge, he found a very different Jean Story. She was waiting for him quiet and subdued, without a trace of her late irritation.</p>
			<p>“Did you tell him?” she said gently.</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“What did he say?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t ask for an answer. I told him how I felt, and that I would rather my opinions should be known. That’s all.”</p>
			<p>“Are you going?” she said, as he made a movement.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t know⁠—” he said, hesitating and looking at her.</p>
			<p>“I am not angry,” she said a little wistfully. “You were quite right. I’m glad you did it. You are much bigger than I could be⁠—I like that.”</p>
			<p>“You were the first to wake me up,” he said happily, sitting down.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but you have gone so far ahead. You do things without compromise, and that sometimes frightens me.” She stopped a moment, and said, looking at him steadily: “You have kept away a long while. Now you see you are caught. You can’t avoid being alone with me.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to,” he said abruptly.</p>
			<p>“You are so proud, Dink,” she said softly, using his nickname for the first time. “I have never seen anyone so proud. Everything you do I think comes from that. But it must make you suffer terribly.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it does.”</p>
			<p>They were in the front parlor, dimly lit, sitting on the window-seat, hearing from time to time the passing chug of horses’ feet.</p>
			<p>“I knew how it must have hurt you⁠—all this publicity,” she said slowly. “Why didn’t you come when I wrote you? Were you too proud?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I suppose so⁠—and then it didn’t seem fair to you⁠—after all the talk.”</p>
			<p>“I was proud of you,” she said, raising her head a little. She put out her hand again to his, leaving it in his for a long time, while they sat in silence. The touch that once had so disturbed him brought now only a gentle serenity. He thought of the other woman, and what might have been, with almost a hatred, the hatred of man towards whatever he wrongs.</p>
			<p>“You are right about me,” he said slowly. “Most people think I don’t care what happens, that I’m sort of a thick-skinned rhinoceros. How did you know?”</p>
			<p>“I knew.”</p>
			<p>She withdrew her hand slowly, without resistance on his part; only when he held it no longer he felt alone, abandoned to the blackness of the street outside.</p>
			<p>“I’ve kept my promise to you, Jean,” he said a little unsteadily, “but don’t make it too hard.”</p>
			<p>She rose and he followed. Together they stood in the shadows of the embrasure, half seeing each other. Only he knew that her large eyes were looking out at him with the look of the woman that he had first called forth when he had wounded the pride of the girl.</p>
			<p>“I am glad you didn’t listen to me just now,” she said slowly.</p>
			<p>“When?”</p>
			<p>“When you went upstairs to Dad. You will never weaken, I know.” She came a little towards him, and understanding, he took her gently, wonderingly, in his arms. “It’s going to be very hard for you,” she said, “Tap Day⁠—to stand there and know that you may be misjudged. I should be very proud to announce our engagement, then⁠—that same day.”</p>
			<p>Then he knew that he held in his arms one who had never given so much as her hand lightly, who came to him in unflinching loyalty, whose only interest would be his interest, who would know no other life but his life, whose joy would be the struggle that was his struggle.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Tap Day arrived at last, cloudy and misty. He had slept badly in fits and starts, nor had the others fared better, with the exception of Regan, who had rumbled peacefully through the night⁠—but then Regan was one whom others sought. The morning was interminable, a horror. They did not even joke about the approaching ordeal. No one was so sure of election but that the possible rejection of some chum cast its gloom over the day.</p>
			<p>Dink ran over a moment after lunch with Bob for a last word with Jean. She was going with her father and mother to see the tapping from a window in Durfee.</p>
			<p>“I shall only see you,” she said to him, with her hands in his, and her loyal eyes shining. “I shall be so proud of the way you take it.”</p>
			<p>“So you think I won’t be tapped,” he said slowly.</p>
			<p>“It means so little now,” she said. “That can’t add a feather’s weight to what you are.”</p>
			<p>They went back to their rooms, joining Hungerford and Regan, who were whiling away the time playing piquet.</p>
			<p>“Here,” said Tom in relief when they entered, “one of you fellows keep Joe entertained, the darn fool has suddenly made up his mind he’s going to be passed over.”</p>
			<p>Regan, relinquishing his place, went back to his book.</p>
			<p>“Why, Joe, you fluffy ass,” said Story affectionately, “you’re the surest of the lot. Shut up⁠—cheer us up instead.”</p>
			<p>“Look at that mound of jelly,” said Hungerford peevishly, pointing to Regan. “Has he any nerves?”</p>
			<p>“What’s the use of fidgeting?” said Regan.</p>
			<p>An hour later Hungerford stretched his arm nervously, rose and consulted the clock.</p>
			<p>“Four-fifteen; let’s hike over in about twenty minutes.”</p>
			<p>“All right.”</p>
			<p>“Say, I don’t mind saying that I feel as though I were going to be taken out, stuck full of holes, sawed up, drawn and quartered and boiled alive. I feel like jumping on an express and running away.”</p>
			<p>Stover, remembering Joe’s keen suffering at the spectacle back in freshman year, said gravely:</p>
			<p>“You’re sure, Joe. You’ll go among the first. Come back with smelling salts for me. I’ve got to stand through the whole thing and grin like a Cheshire cat⁠—that’s <i>de rigueur</i>. Do you remember how bully Dudley was when he missed out? Funny⁠—then I thought I had a cinch.”</p>
			<p>“If it was left to our class, you would, Dink,” said Bob.</p>
			<p>“Thanks.”</p>
			<p>Stover smiled a little at this unconscious avowal of his own estimate, rose, picked out his favorite pipe, and said:</p>
			<p>“I don’t care so much⁠—there’s a reason. Well, let’s get into the mess.”</p>
			<p>The four went together, over toward the junior fence, already swarming.</p>
			<p>“Ten minutes of five,” said Hungerford, looking at the clock that each had seen.</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>Some one stopped Stover to wish him good luck. He looked down on a diminutive figure in large spectacles, trying to recall, who was saying to him:</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I wanted to wish you the best.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it’s Wookey,” said Stover suddenly. He shook hands, rather troubled. “Well, boy, there’s not much chance for me.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I hope so.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks just the same.”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Dink, old fellow.”</p>
			<p>“Put her there.”</p>
			<p>“You know what we all want?”</p>
			<p>He was in another group, patted on the back, his arm squeezed, listening to the welcome loyalty of those who knew him.</p>
			<p>“Lord, if they’d only have sense enough.”</p>
			<p>He smiled and made his way towards his three friends, exchanging salutations.</p>
			<p>“Luck, Dink.”</p>
			<p>“Same to you, Tommy Bain.”</p>
			<p>“Here’s wishing.”</p>
			<p>“Back to you, Dopey.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got my vote.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks.”</p>
			<p>He joined his roommates under the tree, looking over the heads to the windows of Durfee where he saw Jean Story with her father and mother. Presently, seeking everywhere, she saw him. Their eyes met, he lifted his cap, she nodded slightly. From that moment he knew she would see no one else.</p>
			<p>“Let’s keep together,” said Regan. “Lock arms.”</p>
			<p>The four stood close together, arms gripped, resisting the press that crushed them together, speaking no more, hearing about them the curious babble of the underclassmen.</p>
			<p>“That’s Regan.”</p>
			<p>“Story’ll go first.”</p>
			<p>“Stand here.”</p>
			<p>“This is the spot.”</p>
			<p>“Lord, they look solemn enough.”</p>
			<p>“Almost time.”</p>
			<p>“Get your watch out.”</p>
			<p>“Fifteen seconds more.”</p>
			<p>“Five, four, three, two⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>Boom!</i>”</p>
			<p>Above their heads the chapel bell broke over them with its five decisive strokes, swallowed up in the roar of the college.</p>
			<p>“<i>Yea!</i>”</p>
			<p>“Here he comes!”</p>
			<p>“First man for Bones!”</p>
			<p>“Reynolds!”</p>
			<p>From where he stood Stover could see nothing. Only the travelling roar of the crowd told of the coming seniors. Then there was a stir in the crowd near him, and Reynolds, in black derby, came directly for them; pushed them aside, and suddenly slapped someone behind.</p>
			<p>A roar went up again.</p>
			<p>“Who was it?” said Story quickly.</p>
			<p>“Hunter, Jim Hunter.”</p>
			<p>The next moment Hunter, white as a sheet, bumped at his side and passed, followed by Reynolds; down the convulsive lane the crowd opened to him.</p>
			<p>Roar followed roar, and reports came thick.</p>
			<p>“Stone’s gone Keys.”</p>
			<p>“Three Wolf’s-Head men in the crowd.”</p>
			<p>“McNab gets Keys.”</p>
			<p>“Hooray!”</p>
			<p>“Dopey’s tapped!”</p>
			<p>“Bully.”</p>
			<p>“Wiggins fourth man for Bones.”</p>
			<p>Still no one came their way. Then all at once a Bones man, wandering in the crowd, came up behind Bob Story, caught him by the shoulders, swung him around to make sure, and gave him the slap.</p>
			<p>Regan’s, Hungerford’s, and Stover’s voices rose above the uproar:</p>
			<p>“Bully, Bob!”</p>
			<p>“Good work!”</p>
			<p>“Hooray for you!”</p>
			<p>Almost immediately Regan received the eighth tap for Bones, and went for his room amidst the thundering cheers of a popular choice.</p>
			<p>“Well, here we are, Dink,” said Hungerford.</p>
			<p>“You’re next.”</p>
			<p>About them the curious spectators pressed, staring up into their faces for any sign of emotion, struggling to reach them, with the dramatic instinct of the crowd. Four more elections were given out by Bones⁠—only three places remained.</p>
			<p>“That settles me,” said Stover between his teeth. “If they wanted me I’d gone among the first. Joe’s going to get last place⁠—bully for him. He’s the best fellow in the class.”</p>
			<p>He folded his arms and smiled with the consciousness of a decision accepted. He saw Hungerford’s face, and the agony of suspense to his sensitive nerves.</p>
			<p>“Cheer up, Joe, it’s last place for you.”</p>
			<p>Then another shout.</p>
			<p>“Bones or Keys?” he asked of those around him.</p>
			<p>“Bones.”</p>
			<p>“Charley Stacey.”</p>
			<p>“Thirteenth man.”</p>
			<p>“I was sure of it,” he said calmly to himself. Then he glanced up at the window. Her eyes had never left him. He straightened up with a new defiance. “Lord, I’d like to have gotten it, just for Jean. Well, I knocked against too many heads. I don’t wonder.”</p>
			<p>Suddenly Hungerford caught his hand underneath the crowd, pressing it unseen.</p>
			<p>“Last man for Bones now, Dink,” he said, looking in his eyes. “I hope to God it’s you.”</p>
			<p>“Why, you old chump,” said Stover laughing, so all heard him. “Bless your heart, I don’t mind. Here’s to you.”</p>
			<p>Above the broken, fitful cheers, suddenly came a last swelling roar.</p>
			<p>“Bones.”</p>
			<p>“Last man.”</p>
			<p>The crowd, as though divining the election, divided a path towards where the two friends waited, Hungerford staring blankly, Stover, arms still folded, waiting steadily with a smile of acceptation on his lips.</p>
			<p>It was Le Baron. He came like a black tornado, rushing over the ground straight toward the tree. Once someone stumbled into his path, and he caught him and flung him aside. Straight to the two he came, never deviating, straight past Dink Stover, and suddenly switching around almost knocked him to the ground with the crash of his blow.</p>
			<p>“Go to your room!”</p>
			<p>It was a shout of electrifying drama, the voice of his society speaking to the college.</p>
			<p>Some one caught Stover. He straightened up, trying to collect his wits, utterly unprepared for the shock. About him pandemonium broke loose. Still dazed, he felt Hungerford leap at him, crying in his ears:</p>
			<p>“God bless you, old man. It’s great, great⁠—they rose to it. It’s the finest ever!”</p>
			<p>He began to move mechanically towards his room, seeing nothing, hearing nothing. He started towards the library, and someone swung him around. He heard them cheering, then he saw hundreds of faces, wild-eyed, rushing past him; he stumbled and suddenly his eyes were blurred with tears, and he knew how much he cared, after the long months of rebellion, to be no longer an outsider, but back among his own with the stamp of approval on his record.</p>
			<p>The last thing he remembered through his swimming vision was Joe Hungerford, hatless and swinging his arms as though he had gone crazy, leading a cheer, and the cheer was for Bones.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>That night, even before he went to the Storys’, Stover went out arm in arm with Hungerford, across the quiet campus, so removed from the fray of the afternoon.</p>
			<p>“Joe, it breaks me all up,” he said at last. “You and I waiting there⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t speak of it, old fellow,” said Hungerford. “Now let me talk. I did want to make it, but, by George, I know now it’s better I didn’t. I’ve had everything I wanted in this world; this is the first I couldn’t get. It’s better for me; I know it already.”</p>
			<p>“You were clean grit, Joe, cheering for Bones.”</p>
			<p>“By George, I meant it. It meant something to feel they could rise up and know a man, and you’ve hit pretty close to them, old boy.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I have, but I’ve believed it.”</p>
			<p>“It shows the stuff that’s here,” said Hungerford, “when you once can get to it. Now I take off my hat to them. I only hope you can make your influence felt.”</p>
			<p>“I’m going to try,” said Stover solemnly. “The thing is so big a thing that it ought not to be hampered by bug-a-boo methods.”</p>
			<p>Brockhurst joined them.</p>
			<p>“Well, the smoke’s rolled away,” said Brockhurst, who likewise had missed out. “It’s over⁠—all over. Now we’ll settle down to peace and quiet⁠—relax.”</p>
			<p>“The best time’s coming,” said Hungerford. “We’ll live as we please, and really enjoy life. It’s the real time, everyone says so.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Brockhurst, rebel to the last, “but why couldn’t it come before, why couldn’t it be so the whole four years?”</p>
			<p>“Well, now, old croaker,” said Hungerford with a little heat, “own up the old college comes up to the scratch. We’ve surrendered the sophomore society system, and the seniors showed today that they could recognize honest criticism. That’s pretty fine, I say.”</p>
			<p>“You’re pretty fine, Joe,” said Brockhurst to their surprise. “Well, it’s good enough as it is. It takes an awful lot to stir it, but it’s the most sensitive of the American colleges, and it will respond. It wants to do the right thing. Some day it’ll see it. I’m a crank, of course.” He stopped, and Stover felt in his voice a little note of bitterness. “The trouble with me is just that. I’m impractical; have strange ideas. I’m not satisfied with Yale as a magnificent factory on democratic business lines; I dream of something else, something visionary, a great institution not of boys, clean, lovable and honest, but of men of brains, of courage, of leadership, a great center of thought, to stir the country and bring it back to the understanding of what man creates with his imagination, and dares with his will. It’s visionary⁠—it will come.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
